In my experience, try to pick a topic
that you can support by numbers.
So people love it when you
say things in a report like,
22% of respondents have never done
usability testing on their website, right?
That kind of insights people really like.
So don't pick a subject that's so
wooly that it wouldn't enable
that kind of analysis.
Again, I'm gonna get into exactly how to
do the report, so don't overly worry.
So once you've done that initial contact
and you're beginning to get a sense of,
okay, I wanna write a report
on this kinda subject and
I want it to cover these kinds of things.
Then you can get into preparing
to send a survey, right?
Why a survey, right?
Why are we asking people
to complete a survey?
Well, there's several reasons.
First of all, it's gonna give us
valuable content for the report,
cuz as I've already said,
writing a report is quite intimidating.
But if you've got a survey and you can
just reference things that have been said
in the survey, means a lot less work on
you, makes the whole thing a lot easier.
Secondly, and probably more importantly,
it's an opportunity to contact
people again and go, hey, don't forget I
exist and I'm interested in your sector.
It's also really good for
understanding your audience, right?
What is it they want?
What is it they care about?
So let's talk about creating that survey,
right?
So we know roughly what
we wanna write about.
We know who we wanna reach out to.
What do we wanna ask in that survey,
all right?
First thing, it can't take more
than 5 to 7 minutes to complete.
I reckon around 20 questions
is about right, okay?
Too few and
it looks like you're not really trying,
too many and people don't complete it.
So by far the majority of those questions
should be multi-choice questions,
all right?
That will, A, it makes it a lot easier for
people to complete, and
they can do it faster and they don't
have to think so much about it, and B,
it makes your data analysis much easier.
So doing things like,
22% of people said this,
you can see it instantly without
having to do a lot of digging.
With any survey,
it's always good practice to start
with a really easy question, right?
The reason being is that
once people start something,
they're more likely to finish it.
So ask them a no-brainer question or
so something like,
how big is the company you work for
or something like that.
Or alternatively, ask them a question
which you know they're gonna
have a really strong opinion about, right?
A question like, is your department
adequately funded, right?
Cuz they're all instantly going,
of course it's not.
And it's a bit of a wasted question, but
it's a good one at getting them engaged.
Right, so, at the end of the survey,
you wanna ask,
would you be willing to be interviewed,
right, cuz I'd love to chat with you.
Now this, the people that say yes
to this are invaluable, right?
So I had one agency who who did this and
they sent out their survey, bless them.
But not agency,
it was a freelancer, right?
Freelancer sent out the survey and
he picked a very niche market.
But even so, it should have worked.
He unfortunately only got three
replies to the survey, right?
He was gutted.
Yet one of those replies said,
you can contact me.
And so he gave him a ring and
had a chat with them, and
it led to six months worth of work for
him.
So if anybody who says they're
willing to be interviewed,
take them up on it, really invaluable,
often that can turn into work.
So it's a really good one.
And then at the end as well,
it's worth offering that site
review thing that I said.
Now, the site review only
needs to be very lightweight.
It just basically needs to be, well,
the one that I do because I do usability,
I basically spend 20 minutes
looking around the site,
recording me live with Loom,
saying this isn't so good,
that's great, that's wonderful,
no, I don't like that, basically.
And I send that to them.
If you work in something like performance,
you just could run it through some
of the tools that are out there
that enable you to do it.
Keep it very, very lightweight.
Don't spend a long time doing it.
But people really appreciate personal
feedback on their particular website.
So offer that if they want it as
a thank you for completing the survey.
In terms of creating a survey,
I happen to use an app called Forms.app,
because it's easy to embed it in my
website, and it's not easy to customize.
But really, it's up to you,
you can use anything you want.
I wouldn't use Google Forms
because they look damn ugly and
we wanna integrate it into a landing page,
and yes, I would avoid that.
But other than that, you're okay.
So what specifically to ask in your in
your survey with those caveats in mind.
So really you're after
questions that provide insights
into the audience, and
what they're interested in.
Or particularly who they are and how they
kinda fit into the broader structure.
So a common question that I ask is,
who does your web team report into?
Because what you're after,
right, I know that there
are certain things that
people within organizations
want to know about how
other organizations do it.
Does that make sense?
So one of them for example is,
are we reporting to IT?
I don't think that works very well,
is that common?
So if my report can say,
only 23% of people reporting to IT,
then that's valuable to them.
So it's questions about information
that your audience are interested
in knowing and allows them to
compare themselves to others.
Questions that address the audience's
pain point in some way.
So a typical one would be,
do you have a dedicated budget?
Because a lot of teams don't
have a dedicated budget.
They're at the whim of senior management.
So that might be those kinds of
pain point questions, good to ask.
Questions about the company's
make up is quite useful,
mainly to allow you to segment
your results afterwards.
So what do I mean by that?
So for example,
you could say 23% of companies
with less than 100 employees do this,
while 53% of companies with
over 100 employees do this.
So asking them a little bit
about their company and
what its structure is is worthwhile.
And then questions relating to your area
of expertise or the services you offer.
So when was the last time
you did a performance audit?
Do you run ongoing conversion
rate optimization?
Do you have a design system for
managing your front-end code?
Things like that.
So you've decided on your 20 questions.
You've got the additional at the end of,
would you be willing to do an interview,
do you want this free site review?
Now, we've gotta send that,
we've gotta get that to our audience, but
what we're gonna do first is we're gonna
create a landing page to go with that
survey, right?
So we're gonna embed
the survey in a landing page.
Now in terms of what that
landing page is gonna cover,
it's gonna explain the offering.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Well, we're gonna start that landing
page by clearly explaining what they
get if they complete the survey.
So something like, for
five minutes of your time,
you will get insider insights into charity
fundraising by getting our free report for
your participation,
something along those lines.
We'll also emphasize the benefits
of completing the survey, or more
specifically, the benefits of the final
report that will come out of the survey.
Benefits could include an awareness of
the competitive landscape, evidence
to support your requests to management,
and insights into areas of innovation.
So it's not necessarily the detail of
what the report is gonna cover but
how it's gonna help people.
It'll help me get my manager to
agree to give us a dedicated budget,
for example, that kinda thing.
Then there's the scope.
So landing page will say what
the final report is gonna cover.
And that will be broadly based on the
kinds of questions that you're asking in
the survey.
You don't need to get
into too much details.
So you've got a bit of flexibility later.
And then finally a little bit,
this is where you can just now begin to
introduce the idea of you and
your expertise and your services.
You can say a little bit about why your
company is undertaking this research,
all right, and
your experience in the sector.
So it's all very, very gentle, all right?
What's the phrase?
Slowly slowly catchy monkey, which I never
really did understand that phrase or
where it came from or what it means,
but apparently, the idea of going slow.
Why you'd wanna catch a monkey,
don't get it.
So, in terms of designing
the landing page, look, basically,
if you are a designer,
then you're gonna wanna design it yourself
cuz you wanna showcase the work you do.
But really, for anybody else,
you can just use a tool like Leadpage,
Pages.net, there's an ample of these
kinda landing page creator tools
out there where you just pick a template,
you can pop your stuff in there.
Try not to write reams of content, try and
break it down into nice content
blocks that make it easy to scan.
You don't need to say a lot, but
you do need to say a little bit.
Use lots of lists and icons if
possible to make it more scannable.
And don't repeat yourself too much or
overstate things.
And then have that obvious call to
action start the survey, right?
So we've got a little
landing page in place,
don't spend too long on it, but
have it there with your survey in it.
Either embedded actually in the page or
linked from it, whatever's easiest.